
WinJPLib for JP-8000 Manual
-------------------------------------------------------------
1.  Main Functions

Processes System, Patch, Performance, RPS Pattern, and Motion Control
data 
Using WinJPLib, you can perform all the operations listed below with
respect to data for the JP-8000's System, User Patches, User
Performances, RPS Patterns, and Motion Control.
¥ Retrieve data from your JP-8000 on your PC via MIDI (Get)
¥ Send data from your PC to the JP-8000 via MIDI (Send)
¥ Load and save data files (Load, Save)
¥ Rearrange data
¥ Initialize data
¥ Edit Patch and Performance names

Sending Patches and Performances to the JP-8000's Temporary
Area/Previewing them in the Temporary Area 

2 . About the Data
The various data files can by distinguished by their extension.

Patches
These are collections of User Patch data for the JP-8000.
The 128 Patches from A11 through B88 are contained in one file.
Extension: .pat

Performance
These are arrangements of user Performance data for the JP-8000.
The 64 Performances from 11 through 88 are contained in one file.
Extension: .pfm

System
This is System data for the JP-8000.
It includes the System parameters and the Tx/Rx Setting
(Transmit/Receive setting).
Extension: .syp

Pattern
This is RPS Pattern data for the JP-8000.
The keyboard's 48 Patterns are contained in one file.
Extension: .ptn

Motion Control
This is Motion Control data for the JP-8000.
The 4 Motions A1, A2, B1, and B2 are contained in one file.
Extension: .mtn

3.  How to Use the Software

< Common Menus >

File (F)
¥ New (N)
Opens a new window.
A dialog box for selection of the data type opens (System Parameter,
Patch, Performance, Pattern Data, Motion Data).
All data will be initialized.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Open (O)
Opens existing files.
The different types of data are distinguished by their extensions.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Close (C)
Closes the currently active window.
If any data has been changed, a prompt appears asking whether or not
you want to save the data.

¥ Save (S)
This saves the data in the active window to the disk.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Save As (A)
For giving a new name to the data in the active window and saving the
data to disk.

¥ Exit (X)
This quits WinJPLib.
If any data has been changed, a dialog appears asking whether or not
you want to save the data.

Setup (S)
¥ Tool Bar (T)
Shows/hides the Tool Bar.

¥ Status Bar (S)
Shows/hides the Status Bar.

¥ Send Data (D)
Click on this to select whether or not the data in the Patch or
Performance windows is to be sent to the JP-8000's Temporary Area.

¥ MIDI Setup
For setting the MIDI In/Out device.
The settings are automatically saved to WinJPLib.ini.

¥ Preview Setup
For setting the Preview parameters.
Parameters that can be set are Note Number, Velocity, and Tone Length.
The parameters settings are automatically saved to WinJPLib.ini.

Window (W)
This is the default setting every time a window is opened.

¥ Cascade (C)
This setting has the windows overlapping on the screen.

¥ Tile (T)
This places open windows adjacent to each other on the screen .

¥ Arrange Icons (A)

This lines up the icons in a row.

Help (H)
¥ About WinJPLib (A)
This opens "About WinJPLib".

< Patch Menus >
The following menus are added to the Menu Bar when the Patch window is
made active.

Patch (P)
¥ Get Patch
This retrieves User Patch data from the JP-8000 and loads it into your
computer.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Send Patch
This sends User Patch data from your computer to the JP-8000's User
Patch Area.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

< Performance Menus >
The following menus are added to the menu bar when the Performance
window is made active.

Performance (P)
¥ Get Performance
This retrieves User Performance data from the JP-8000 and loads it
into your computer.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Send Performance
This sends User Performance data from your computer to the JP-8000's
User Performance Area.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

< System Menus >
The following menus are added to the menu bar when the System window
is made active.

System (Y)
¥ Get System
This retrieves User System data from the JP-8000 and loads it into
your computer.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Send System
This sends User System data from your computer to the JP-8000.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

< Pattern Menus >
System
¥ Get Pattern
This retrieves User Pattern data from the JP-8000 and loads it into
your computer.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Send Pattern
This sends User Pattern data from your computer to the JP-8000.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

< Motion Control Menus >

Motion (M)
¥ Get Motion
This retrieves User Motion data from the JP-8000 and loads it into
your computer.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

¥ Send Motion
This sends User Motion data from your computer to the JP-8000.
This operation can also be found in the Tool Bar.

Tool Bar
The Tool Bar features the following functions.
¥ File New
¥ File Open
¥ File Save
These function the same as New, Open, and Save in the Menu Bar.

¥ Get Patch
¥ Send Patch
These function the same as Get and Send in the Patch menu.

¥ Get Performance
¥ Send Performance
These function the same as Get Performance and Send Performance in the
Performance menu.

¥ Get System Parameter
¥ Send System Parameter
These function the same as Get System Parameter and Send System
Parameter in the System menu.

¥ Get Pattern
¥ Send Pattern
These function the same as Get Pattern and Send Pattern in the Pattern
menu.

¥ Get Motion
¥ Send Motion
These function the same as Get Motion and Send Motion in the Motion
menu.

¥ Preview
This plays the data in the JP-8000's Temporary Area.
You can change the parameters in [Preview Setup] in the Setup menu.

¥ Clear Copy Buffer
This clears the Copy Buffer and returns the cursor when the data
sequence is changed.

¥ About WinJPLib
This performs the same function as About WinJPLib in the Help menu.

< Patch Window >
The Patch window features blue icons.
The names and numbers of the 128 Patches A11 through B88 are displayed
in columns of eight Patches each separated by thick lines.

Selecting Patches
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you left-click on a Patch, the Patch is selected and its
color changes.
When [Send Data] in the Setup menu is checked, the data is output via
MIDI to the JP-8000's Temporary Area.
When you press the Tool Bar Preview button under these conditions, the
selected Patch is played.

Copying Patches to the Copy Buffer
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), pressing Shift and left-clicking on a Patch, the Patch is
selected, its color changes, the Patch is copied to the Copy Buffer,
and the cursor changes to "PAT."

Copying Patches from the Copy Buffer
When there is a Patch copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "PAT"), left-clicking any of the Patches A11 through B88
copies the Patch data to the corresponding location, and the color of
the selected Patch then changes.
At this time, the Copy Buffer is cleared, and the cursor returns to
normal.
You cannot copy data other than Patch data from the Copy Buffer.

Clearing the Copy Buffer
When there is a Patch copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "PAT"), left-clicking on the same Patch clears the Copy Buffer
without copying the Patch data, and the cursor returns to normal.
This performs the same function as [Clear Copy Buffer] in the Tool
Bar.

Initializing Patches
When you click the right button on the Patch, a pop-up menu opens;
selecting [Initialize Patch] initializes that Patch.

Editing Patch Names
When you right-click on the Patch, a pop-up menu opens; by selecting
[Edit Patch Name], you can edit the name of that Patch.

Getting Individual Patches from the JP-8000
When you right-click on the Patch, a pop-up menu opens; by selecting
[Get Patch], you can retrieve individual Patch data from your JP-8000.

Sending Individual Patches to the JP-8000
When you click the right button on the Patch, a pop-up menu opens; by
selecting [Send Patch], you can send individual Patch data to your
JP-8000 from your computer.

< Performance Window >
The Performance window features red icons.
The names and numbers of the 64 Performances 11 through 88 are
displayed in columns of eight Performances separated by thick lines.
Additionally, the upper Patch for each Performance is displayed in the
upper right of the Performance, the lower Patch in the lower right.

Selecting Patches and Performances
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you click on a Patch or Performance, the Patch or
Performance is selected and its color changes.
When [Send Data] in the Setup menu is checked, the data is output via
MIDI to the JP-8000's Temporary Area.
When you press the Tool Bar Preview button under these conditions, the
selected Patch or Performance is played.

Copying Patches and Performances to the Copy Buffer
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), pressing Shift and left-clicking on a Patch or Performance,
the Patch or Performance is selected and its color is changed.
When it is a Patch that is being copied, the cursor changes to "PAT."
When it is a Performance that is being copied, the cursor changes to
"PFM."

Copying Patches and Performances from the Copy Buffer
When there is a Patch copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "PAT" or "PFM"), left-clicking with the cursor on any of the
Patch or Performances copies that Patch or Performance data (other
kinds of data are not copied) to the corresponding location, and the
color of the selected data then changes.
At this time, the Copy Buffer is cleared, and the cursor returns to
normal.

Clearing the Copy Buffer
When there is a Patch or Performance copied into the Copy Buffer (with
the cursor showing "PAT" or "PFM"), left-clicking on the same Patch or
Performance clears the Copy Buffer without copying the data, and the
cursor then reverts to its normal condition.
This performs the same function as [Clear Copy Buffer] in the Tool
Bar.

Initializing Patches or Performances
When you right-click on a Patch or Performance, a pop-up menu opens;
selecting [Initialize Patch] initializes that Patch or Performance.

Editing Patch and Performance Names
When you right-click on the Patch or Performance, a pop-up menu opens;
by selecting [Edit Patch Name] or [Edit Performance Name], you can
edit the name of that Patch or Performance.

Getting Individual Patches and Performances from the JP-8000
When you right-click on a Patch or Performance, a pop-up menu opens;
by selecting [Get Patch] or [Get Performance], you can retrieve
individual Patch or Performance data from your JP-8000.

Sending Individual Patches and Performances to the JP-8000
When you right-click on the Patch or Performance, a pop-up menu opens;
by selecting [Send Patch] or [Send Performance], you can send
individual Patch or Performance data to your JP-8000 from your
computer.

< System Window >
The System window has green icons.
System data includes the System parameters and the Tx/Rx Setting.

Selecting the System Data
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you left-click on System data, that data is selected,
and the color changes.
* Data cannot be sent to the JP-8000 with just this procedure.

Copying System Data to the Copy Buffer
When there is no data in the Copy Buffer (normal cursor), by pressing
Shift and left-clicking on the system data, that data is selected,
changing the color, and the data is copied to the Copy Buffer.
When it is System Parameter data that is being copied, the cursor
changes to "SYP"; when the transmit and receive setting (Tx/Rx
Setting) is being copied, the cursor changes to "TRS."

Copying System Data from the Copy Buffer
When there is System data copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "SYP" or "TRS"), by left-clicking with the cursor on the
System data, that data is copied (other types of data are not copied)
and the color of the selected system data changes.
At this time, the Copy Buffer is cleared, and the cursor returns to
its normal state.

Clearing the Copy Buffer
When there is System data copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "SYP" or "TRS"), left-clicking on the same System parameter
clears the Copy Buffer without copying the data, and the cursor then
reverts to normal.
This performs the same function as [Clear Copy Buffer] in the Tool
Bar.

Initializing the System
When you right-click on the System data, a pop-up menu opens;
selecting [Initialize System Parameter] or [Initialize Tx/Rx Setting]
initializes that data.

Getting System Data Individually from the JP-8000
When you right-click on the System data, a pop-up menu opens; by
selecting [Get System Parameter] or [Get Tx/Rx Setting], you can
retrieve individual System data from your JP-8000.

Sending System Data Individually to the JP-8000
When you right-click on the System data, a pop-up menu opens; by
selecting [Send System Parameter] or [Send Tx/Rx Setting], you can
send individual System data to your JP-8000 from your computer.

< Pattern Window >
The Pattern window features yellow icons.
The 48 Patterns C#2 - C6 are displayed vertically, and on the left
side of the window a keyboard corresponding to the Patterns is
displayed.

Selecting Patterns
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you left-click on a Pattern, the Pattern is selected and
its color changes.
* Data cannot be sent to the JP-8000 with just this procedure.

Copying Patterns to the Copy Buffer
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you press Shift while left-clicking on a Pattern, the
Pattern is selected and its color changes, the Pattern is copied to
the Copy Buffer, and the cursor changes to "PTN."

Copying Patterns from the Copy Buffer
When there is a Pattern copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "PTN"), left-clicking with the cursor on any of the Pattern
locations copies the Pattern data to the corresponding location, and
the color of the selected Pattern then changes.
At this time, the Copy Buffer is cleared, and the cursor returns to
normal.
You cannot copy data other than Pattern data from the Copy Buffer.

Clearing the Copy Buffer
When there is a Pattern copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "PTN"), left-clicking on the same Pattern clears the Copy
Buffer without copying the data, and the cursor returns to normal.
This performs the same function as [Clear Copy Buffer] in the Tool
Bar.

Initializing Patterns
When you right-click on a Pattern, a pop-up menu opens; selecting
[Initialize Pattern] initializes that Pattern.

Getting Individual Pattern Data from the JP-8000
When you right-click on a Pattern, a pop-up menu opens; by selecting
[Get Pattern], you can retrieve individual Pattern data from your
JP-8000.

Sending Individual Pattern Data to the JP-8000
When you right-click on the Pattern, a pop-up menu opens; by selecting
[Send Pattern], you can send individual Pattern data to your JP-8000
from your computer.


< Motion Window >
The Motion window features gray icons.
The 4 Motions A1, A2, B1, and B2 are displayed vertically on the
screen.

Selecting Motions
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you left-click on a Motion, the Motion is selected and
its color changes.
* Data cannot be sent to the JP-8000 with just this procedure.

Copying Motions to the Copy Buffer
With no data in the Copy Buffer (with the cursor in its normal
status), when you press Shift while left-clicking on a Motion, the
Motion is selected and the color changes, the Motion is copied to the
Copy Buffer, and the cursor changes to "MTN."

Copying Motions from the Copy Buffer
When there is a Motion copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "MTN"), left-clicking on any of the Motion locations copies
the Motion data to the corresponding location, and the color of the
selected Motion then changes. The Copy Buffer is cleared, and the
cursor returns to normal.
You cannot copy data other than Motion data from the Copy Buffer.

Clearing the Copy Buffer
When there is a Motion copied into the Copy Buffer (with the cursor
showing "MTN"), left-clicking on the same Motion clears the Copy
Buffer without copying the data, and the cursor returns to normal.
This performs the same function as [Clear Copy Buffer] in the Tool
Bar.

Initializing Motions
When you right-click on a Motion, a pop-up menu opens; selecting
[Initialize Motion] initializes that Motion.

Getting Individual Motion Data from the JP-8000
When you right-click on a Motion, a pop-up menu opens; by selecting
[Get Motion], you can retrieve individual Motion data from your
JP-8000.

Sending Individual Motion Data to the JP-8000
When you right-click on a Motion, a pop-up menu opens; by selecting
[Send Motion], you can send individual Motion data to your JP-8000
from your computer.




